# Welcome to Terrea

Terrea is a low-magic, high-tech, fantasy-punk world. It features lost ancient technology that is powered by magical energy, mixed into the cultural equivalents of the Medieval and the Renaissance periods. Robots, guns, and computers exist but are rare to find because the knowledge to build and maintain them have been lost. The common folk use more rudimentary technologies, occasionally cobbling ancient tech together to gain an edge.

The known cosmology is split into four overlapping [realms](#/cosmology/realms) known as the Aether, Nether, Shadowrealm and Mid-Realm. The Aether is the source of all magical energy and the Nether is it's sink, with magical energy flowing between the two via the mortal Mid-Realm. The Shadowrealm was the artificial creation of the ancient race of Gauld, who fashioned it out of the other three realms and escaped to it when their species were on the verge of extinction.

It is the interaction between each of these realms that dictates the physical (and meta-physical) laws of Terrea. Aether exists as an overlapping realm that provides an abundant source of energy, which is then used to power many of the technological devices on Terrea. Electricity and magnetism exists in this world, but is largely overlooked due to how easy the Aether is to access. The existence of the Nether as a universal energy sink means that normal thermodynamic laws and restrictions do not apply; Aether-based technology does not overheat, nor does it "run" out of power. The energy is simply sourced from the Aether, powers the device in Mid-Realm, and is dumped into the Nether.

A commonly-held religious belief on Terrea is that each realm is ruled over by a temperamental and fickle [god](#/cosmology/deities). These gods are constantly bickering with each other, and that natural disasters are the result of these arguments. The gods are not bound by mortal ethics and morality, and are solely concerned with protecting their realms and their power. The gods rarely interact with mortals directly, with mythology stating that the gods have removed themselves from mortal affairs after the ancient Gauld departed to the Shadowrealm. 

The Gauld were the first sentient peoples of Terrea, and they were extremely intelligent and cunning. They flourished across all of Mid-Realm by creating many technological wonders, and some sources claim that they even reached the heavens above. This drew the attention of [Primus](#/cosmology/deities), an immortal elemental being that was there at the beginning of everything. Primus shared their knowledge with the Gauld, and this led to the creation of the elemental-fused Gauld known as Primoridals. In most mythologies Primus and the Gauld eventually rose up against the Gods, and the Gods retaliated by birthing the monsters that are now endemic to Terrea. The Gods eventually triumphed, and the Gauld and Primus escaped to the [Shadow Realm](#/cosmology/realms). The ruins and technology of the Gauld remained behind, reminders of what once was.

As an adventurer in Terrea you can choose to fight back against the monstrous terrors that plague the good and honest citizens, or delve deep into ancient ruins and plunder their powerful secrets. You can take part in the politics of the day, making sure that the people are well-looked after or bowing down in servitude to their betters. You can join the struggle alongside [freedom fighters](#/nations?id=partisans), stand firm with the [Hentergrey Empire](#/nations?id=hentergrey) to maintain order, or go plundering with Orcish raiders. And if that all seems too grand for you, simply try to make an honest living as a humble adventurer that will eventually settle down with family and friends.
