Daemons are what the Gauld transformed into after they entered the Shadowrealm. The Shadowrealm is an empty, transient, timeless realm that meant that while the Gauld became essentially immortal they could not create or destroy. Without an outlet for their creativity and intelligence, the Gauld turned to modifying themselves using the limited access they had to the Aether.

Daemons are neither evil or good, as they generally do not share the same ethics or values as the sentient races of Terrea. They are jealous, however, and seek a way to return to Terrea. But their banishment to the Shadowrealm severed their mortality, and means that they must be summoned back into Mid-Realm. Once summoned, the Daemon is bound to the area as they are still tethered to the Shadowrealm.

Some notable Daemons include:

- **Militas**: A general and leader as well as a close friend of Primus, Militas is largely attributed with pulling the Gauldian people together and leading them into the Shadowrealm. Militas considered himself a servant of the people, and was a big advocate of Gauldian primacy on Terrea. He achieved many noteworthy victories over the Dragons and the assembled monsters, and was seen as a people's hero. But Militas has retreated inward after the Sundering, accepting that the Gauld were defeated and resolving someone else to take the lead to find a new way forward for the Gauldian peoples. Whoever could convince Militas to their cause would gain a powerful ally.
- **Kenodox**: Another great general, Kenodox has not given up on the dream of ultimate Gauldian primacy. The banishment has not dimmed Kenodox's zeal, and he still plots and plans on returning the Gauld to their rightful place. He sees anyone who has given up on the war as traitors to the cause. Kenodox has gathered many daemons to his cause, as he is an influential and vibrant speaker.
- **Orgia**: A special forces commander during the war, Orgia's argument to why the Gauld lost can be simplified to a few simple words: Not enough dakka. She has channelled her disappointed into becoming a wrathful and fierce creature. She eternally fights and rages, and some other daemons have followed her lead.
- **Castia**: Castia was little more than an influential criminal in her prior life, but had a change of heart in the aftermath of the Sundering. The downfall of the Gauld led Castia to believe that whole race had lost their "*purity*", falling to hubris and ambition. Castia began to preach her form of "*purity*" during her time in the Shadowrealm, amassing a following both within and without. Followers of Castia undertake many rituals and rites to "*purify*" their minds, bodies and souls.
- **Peranti**: A professor of philosophy in his prior life, Peranti was able to draw upon the work of his forebears and help others adjust to the transistion into the Shadowrealm. This evolved into a form of Gauldian stoicism that revolve around self-restraint, self-mastery and perserverance.
- **Indus**: A science historian in his previous life, Indus saw no reason to stop when he passed into the Shadowrealm. Indus aims to preserve all knowledge of the Gauld, and tries to apply and improve upon it in the Shadowrealm. Indus is progressing for progress' sake, and has no overarching plan when it comes to the fate of the Gauld.
- **Pomeia**: Pomeia was a celebrity in her prior life, known as an accomplished singer and dancer. When faced with immortality in the Shadowrealm and the encroaching boredom of too much free time, Pomeia instead gave into all of her desires. She first sought out pleasure, but when that eventually got boring she decided to make it a bit more "*exciting*". She began to inflict pain on her partners, which then evolved into torture, until Pomeia no longer knew what was pleasure and what was pain. Many Daemons, bored with eternity, began to seek out the lavish and luscious party-torture-orgies of Pomeia just to see if they could feel once more.
- **Retinans**: A reporter and journalist, Retinans continued to use his skills to "report" on the happenings on Mid-Realm. He spent his time and energy creating a "window" to the mortal world, and his success has drawn many to him who seek to alleviate their boredom with stories from their former home. His "newsroom" grew, and now there are many other "oberservers" reporting on the going ons of mortals.
- **Invidia**: A spy and saboteur, Invidia lost her partner before they could both escape into the Shadowrealm. She could not let go, and she resents everything and everyone remaining in mid-realm. She channeled her time and energy into influencing Mid-Realm, and could manage to project her voice as "*whispers*". She uses her ability to "speak" to the vulnerable and weak-minded, spreading rumours and conspiracies that aim to divide mortals and bring them to ruin. She has gathered a following of other who have reasons to hate the realm of mortals, and they whisper endlessly.
- **Akedia**: A simple factory worker with little future prospects and a pretty dull life back in Mid-Realm, Akedia took to her new-found immortality quiet well. She became a prominent supporter of keeping things the way they are, with the Gauld forever immortal in their very own realm of existence. Akedia and her followers oppose any and all change, happy with how things have turned out.